---
sidebar_label: 'Troubleshooting'
sidebar_position: 7
---

# Troubleshooting

## Common Errors

### [ERROR] failed to validate ceremony proof
```bash
2025-02-18T11:46:49.637474Z	FATAL	dkg-initiator	😥 Failed to initiate DKG ceremony: 	{"error": "failed to validate ceremony proof: invalid proof validator pubkey"}
```

This error appears if `ssv-dkg` tool has not met [the hardware requirements](/operators/operator-node/setup-sidecars/enabling-dkg/prerequisites), CPU specifically.

The requirements are for both initiator and operator, the error will appear if any of parties have not met them.

### [ERROR] dial tcp timeout

```bash
2023-10-11T16:36:26.745937Z     FATAL   dkg-initiator   😥 Failed to initiate DKG ceremony:     {"error": "Post \"http://79.44.117.213:3030/init\": dial tcp 79.44.117.213:3030: i/o timeout"}
```

When this error appears, it means that the `ssv-dkg` tool cannot connect to one of the selected operators.

This could be temporary, but if it persists, we recommend changing one of the operators.

### [ERROR] invalid URI for request

```bash
2023-10-11T16:29:47.226138Z     FATAL   dkg-initiator   😥 Failed to load operators:    {"error": "invalid operator URL parse \"80.181.85.114:3030\": invalid URI for request"}
```

When this error appears, it means that the endpoint information for one of the operators is incorrect.

You could manually verify the `operators_info.json` or the initiator command generated by the webapp, or simply change one of the operators.

### [ERROR] connection refused

```bash
2023-10-13T15:21:54.597429Z     FATAL   dkg-initiator   😥 Failed to initiate DKG ceremony:     {"error": "Post \"http://80.181.85.114:3030/init\": dial tcp 80.181.85.114:3030: connect: connection refused"}
```

When this error appears, it means that the `ssv-dkg` tool cannot connect to one of the selected operators, and the reason could be because their `ssv-dkg` operator node has shut down.

This could be temporary, as they will likely start the node again, but if it persists, we recommend changing one of the operators.

### [ERROR] Please provide either operator info string or path

```bash
2023-10-18T12:14:52.667985Z     FATAL   dkg-initiator   😥 Please provide either operator info string or path, not both
```

This error appears when the `operatorsInfo` argument has been used in conjunction with the `operatorsInfoPath`. These options are mutually exclusive, so please remove one or the other from your YAML config file, or from the command used to launch the initiator.
